Allow ClientHello to span multiple QUIC packets (#3045)
quicwg/base-drafts: draft-ietf-quic-tls.md

## ClientHello Size {#clienthello-size}

The first Initial packet from a client starts with its first cryptographic
handshake message, which for TLS is the ClientHello.  Servers might need to
parse the entire ClientHello (e.g., to access extensions such as Server Name
Identification (SNI) or Application Layer Protocol Negotiation (ALPN)) in order
to decide whether to accept the new incoming QUIC connection.  If the
ClientHello spans multiple Initial packets, such servers would need to buffer
the first received fragments, which could consume excessive resources if the

> client's address has not yet been validated.  To avoid this, servers MAY use

Reviewer: The resources are consumed either way, but if the client's address has not yet been validated, a server might not be willing to commit those resources.

the Retry feature (see Section 8.1 of {{QUIC-TRANSPORT}}) to only buffer

> partial ClientHellos from clients with a validated address.  Though a packet

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
partial ClientHello messages from clients with a validated address.  Though a packet
```

larger than 1200 bytes might be supported by the path, a client improves the

> likelihood that a packet is accepted if it ensures that the first ClientHello

Reviewer: s/is accepted/isn't dropped while in transit/

Reviewer 2: I think that acceptance and loss are two separate things and what we're talking about here is acceptance.  The predicate on the statement is that the path supports packets of that size.  This is speculating about a server's willingness to buffer the ClientHello bytes.

To that end, this isn't about the 1200 byte minimum MTU, it's about making the ClientHello *as acceptable as possible*.  Fragments are immediately less acceptable, and while smaller fragments are easier to hold, what matters is the size of the entire message, because that's the upper limit on what the server might have to buffer.  Non-fragmented ClientHello can be as large as the path will support, because the server doesn't have to save them.

I think that we can strike this last sentence and things will be clearer.

Reviewer 3: Related to "as acceptable as possible," should we try to recommend a minimum bound on fragments? (I'm reminded of data dribble, even though that's a different problem entirely.)

Reviewer 4: If this multiple packet initial thing lands, at least we should limit the packet count / time to arrival or provide guidance. Dribble (slow loris) can happen in fragments or just in many very small complete packets over a very long time.

Author: Given that servers are encouraged to send Retry packets to clients with multiple-packet ClientHellos, this change doesn't make dribble worse, an attacker can send a single-packet ClientHello then start its SlowLoris without this change.

Reviewer 4: You don't need to commit as much memory after that point.

## ClientHello Size {#clienthello-size}

> The first Initial packet from a client starts with its first cryptographic

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The first Initial packet from a client contains the start or all of its first cryptographic
```

Author: Fixed

cryptographic handshake message, which for TLS is the ClientHello.  Servers
might need to parse the entire ClientHello (e.g., to access extensions such as
Server Name Identification (SNI) or Application Layer Protocol Negotiation
(ALPN)) in order to decide whether to accept the new incoming QUIC connection.
If the ClientHello spans multiple Initial packets, such servers would need to
buffer the first received fragments, which could consume excessive resources if
the client's address has not yet been validated.  To avoid this, servers MAY

> use the Retry feature (see Section 8.1 of {{QUIC-TRANSPORT}}) to only buffer

Reviewer 6: Or address tokens, presumably?

cause this message to grow.

For servers, in addition to connection IDs and tokens, the size of TLS session
tickets can have an effect on a client's ability to connect efficiently.
Minimizing the size of these values increases the probability that they can be

> successfully used by a client.

Reviewer 5: This second sentence now seems out of place, since it's unclear why clients wouldn't be able to use them?

Author: Fixed
